You would use AWS Budgets
if you wanted to create a budget based on actual charges
or future estimated charges
and send alarms whenever your cost will exceed your budgets.
So you have four types of budgets you can set
in the budget console.
You can use usage, cost, reservation and savings plan,
and we'll see them in a second.
In case of signing a budget for a reserve instance,
you can track utilization of your reserve instances overall
and it supports RIs for different services
such as EC2, ElastiCache, RDS, and Redshift.
You can set up to five notifications per budgets
and you can filter your budget by many different options
such as service, linked account, tag, purchase options,
and so on.
So that means that you get a lot of options,
actually the same as Cost Explorer,
and so that makes budgets something that is going
to be a lot more granular, a lot more flexible
when it comes to tracking your cost
and setting up alarms than, for example,
your billing alarms.
So the first two budgets are going to be free
and then you're going to pay 2 cents per day per budget.
So now let's go have a look in the console
to see how budgets work.